
# Towers of Hanoi

<backgroundimage>{{ site.github.url }}/images/Tower_of_Hanoi.jpeg</backgroundimage>
<backgroundimageopacity>1</backgroundimageopacity>

<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/" title="Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0">CC BY-SA 3.0</a>, <a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=228623">Link</a>

---

## Objective

The objective of the puzzle is to move the entire stack to another rod, obeying the following simple rules:

---

## Rules

* Only one disk can be moved at a time.
* Each move consists of taking the upper disk from one of the stacks and placing it on top of another stack or on an empty rod.
* No larger disk may be placed on top of a smaller disk.

---

# NO COMPUTERS

---

## Play with the puzzle - 15 mins.

* [Online version of Towers of Hanoi](https://www.mathsisfun.com/games/towerofhanoi.html)

---

## Review / discuss? - 10 mins?

* What did you think?
* Was it hard / easy?
* What did you do?
    * How did you approach the problem?
    * What techniques did you use?

---

## Break it down!

* Work with just three disks to start with.
* Gather some data
    * Make notes on what you do
    * Develop a language to describe the problem / your actions
* Gradually add more disks and see what you observe?

---

## Come up with an algorithm  - 30 mins

* Work individually

---

## Exchange algorithms - 10 mins

---

## Evaluate solutions - 5 mins?

* Do they work, are they explicit enough?
* What makes a better solution?

Note:
What is the minimum number of moves?
Walk through possible approaches / algs here?
---

* Refine solutions - 15 mins?

---

## Exchange algorithms again

* Are they better?

---

# Session Two

## Turning it into code

Note:
  Going to be working in groups—tell them the groupings  
  Going to be drawing  
  Going to be writing code  

---

# Recap the problem

<backgroundimage>{{ site.github.url }}/images/Tower_of_Hanoi.jpeg</backgroundimage>
<backgroundimageopacity>1</backgroundimageopacity>

---

## Rules

* Only one disk can be moved at a time.
* Each move consists of taking the upper disk from one of the stacks and placing it on top of another stack or on an empty rod.
* No larger disk may be placed on top of a smaller disk.

---

## Review solutions as groups

Come up with one pseudocode version 

---

# Designing your solution

Generate activity diagram

---

# Design your code

Extract classes from your pseudocode

---

# Design your code

Generate sequence diagram or something similar

---

# The first test

We are going to approach this using TDD (i.e. tests will be written first)

---

# What is simplest?

Remember to break the problem down to it’s simplest form

---

# Write first test

Work individually on code. Clone this repo:  
https://github.atcloud.io/AutoTrader/computational-thinking-tutorial

---

# [Stacks](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Stack.html)

## Pushing & popping

<background>black</background>
<backgroundimage>https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-02/21/22/enhanced/webdr08/enhanced-9835-1456110914-10.jpg</backgroundimage>
<backgroundimageopacity>0.15</backgroundimageopacity>

Note:
  Draw a stack  
  More like a Pez…  
  Describe push and pop  
  Talk about LIFO    

---

# Make first test pass

Use [Stack](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Stack.html) behind the scenes

---

# Visualising

How will we see what is actually happening?

---

# Second Test

Make it incrementally more complex

---

# Make second test pass

---

# Third test

What else do we need to test?

---

# Make third test pass

---

# Lather, rinse, repeat…

---

## Review / discuss… 10 mins?

* What did you think?
* Was it hard / easy?
* What did you do?
    * How did you approach the problem?
    * What techniques did you use?

---

# Four pin extension